GRAPH
A graph 'G' is an ordered pair of a V of vertices and a set E of edges.
 G = (V, E)

note: ordered structure is represented by "()"
      unordered structure is represented by "{}"

      ordered pair: (a, b) != (b, a)
      unordered pair: {a, b} == (b, a)

Edges
connection between two nodes/vertices
Types:
 directed edge- one way connection --->
 			  - represented as ordered pair
 undirected edge- two way connection ----
 				- represented as unordered pair

GRAPH TYPES
 Directed Graph/ Digraph- Graph with all directed edges. eg, world wide web
 Undireced Graph- Graph with all undirected edges. eg, social network, like facebook

> undirected graph can be represented as directed graph where for each undirected edge we have two directed edges

Weighted Graph
A graph in which each edge is given a numerical weight.
Unweighted Graph
A weighted graph in which all edges have same weight (generally assumed 1)

	1. Weighted directed graph eg. intracity road network
	2. Weighted undirected graph eg. intercity road network
	3. Unweighted directed graph eg. web
	4. Unweighted undirected graph eg. social network

PROPERTIES OF GRAPH
1. self loop: both end points (origin and destination) of edge are same.

2. multiedge/ parallel edge: if an edge occurs more than once in a graph

3. Number of edges in a graph
Assuming no self loop and paralled edge, (n nodes)
 maximum number of edges in a directed graph = n(n-1)
 maximum number of edges in an undirected graph = n(n-1) / 2

Dense graph- too many number of edges
Sparce graph- few number of edges

4. Path
Path/Walk: A sequence of vertices where each adjacent pair is connected by an edge

 (Simple) path: A path/walk in which no vertices (and thus no edges) are repeated

 Trail: A walk in which no edges are repeated (vertices may be repeated)

Strongly connected graph: In a graph if there is a path from any vertex to all other vertices

- strongly connected graph is associated with directed graph. Undirected graphs are simply called 'connected graphs'

Weakly connected graph: If a directed graph is not strongly connected but can be turned into connected graph by treating all (directed) edges as undirected, it is called weakly conected graph.